Google Chrome is Google's internet browser. An internet browser or web browser is a software that can be downloaded on your Windows or Mac computer that you can use to access the web and surf websites. On your chromebook, Google Chrome is the default and has already been downloaded for you. So, if you want to check an NBA score, shop online, or Google a word, you will need to use an internet browser. In fact, without internet browsers we can't fully exploit the Internet. When you enter the URL of a webpage such as www.nba.com into your internet browser, your browser locates and requests information about that webpage from a web server. Your browser then receives a code file (most likely in HTML or Javascript) that tells your browser what information and how that information from the webpage should be displayed. Your browser then reads and executes the code and displays the webpage for you. This all happens in just a few seconds (or even less) behind the scenes. All the user does is type in a web address and then see the webpage they requested displayed on their computer screen. However, the web browser is running code in the background to allow this to happen.

While other web browsers such as Safari, Microsoft Edge (formerly Internet Explorer), or Firefox can be used instead of Chrome, Chrome is the most popular internet browser. This is what Chrome looks like when opened.

Google Chrome offers features that are unique in addition to features that most modern browsers offer. We will investigate some of these features. First, signing in to Chrome using your Gmail account automatically sings you in to all Google services including YouTube, Gmail, and Google Drive. Secondly, you can customize your experience by changing the settings and by adding apps, extensions, and themes. Extensions are small software programs that can be installed on Chrome. Extensions can block ads from being displayed, manage your passwords, translate, or create notes and todo lists.

Google Chrome also allows you to bookmark webpages you visit regularly. This feature is not unique to Chrome but comes in handy frequently. It's especially helpful if you don't want to type the full address of a webpage, visit a page frequently, or are afraid you will forget them. To bookmark a webpage in Chrome, simply click on the star in the address bar or press control and d on your keyboard.

If you click on 'Done', the bookmark will be saved to the Bookmarks bar. Next time you like to check the webpage you bookmarked without typing the address, you can click on the Chrome menu in the top-right corner, hover over Bookmarks, then click the bookmark you'd like to open.

Incognito mode creates a private browsing session that allows you to browse the web without leaving any fingerprint. When you're in Incognito Mode, your browser doesn't log what you've been doing during your last Internet session. This can be helpful when you're shopping online. By browsing in Incognito mode, you should not later get ads targeting you to buy the items you had searched for earlier. Similarly, airlines track individuals patterns on the web. In Incognito mode, there is a chance you'll be able to save a little bit on air travel prices. To launch a new incognito window, press  control, shift, and n all at once, which opens a grey-colored window.

Tabbed browsing is another feature that most browsers have. It allows you to browse the web and view multiple pages in one browser window instead of opening multiple windows. To open a new tab, simply press control and t.

Finally, In-browser translation uses Google's signature translation service, Google Translate. If you are browsing a webpage in a language that you don't know, Google, in most cases, suggests to translate the webpage for you to English at the top of the webpage. To translate a page, click 'Translate' at the top of the web browser. Google translate is not perfect but the outcome is definitely better than staring at the webpage trying to make sense of the language you don't know.
